.TH MCPX 1
.SH NAME
mcpx \- MCP tools as Unix commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmcpx\fR
\fBmcpx -v\fR
\fBmcpx --json\fR
\fBmcpx --json -v\fR
\fBmcpx completion\fR \fIbash|zsh|fish\fR
\fBmcpx add\fR \fIsource\fR [\fB--name\fR \fIserver\fR] [\fB--header\fR \fIKEY=VALUE\fR]... [\fB--overwrite\fR]
\fBmcpx skill install\fR [\fIFLAGS\fR]
\fBmcpx skill install\fR [\fIserver\fR] [\fIFLAGS\fR]
\fBmcpx shim install\fR \fIserver\fR [\fB--dir\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB--skill\fR] [\fB--skill-strict\fR] [\fIFLAGS\fR]
\fBmcpx shim remove\fR \fIserver\fR [\fB--dir\fR \fIpath\fR]
\fBmcpx shim list\fR [\fB--dir\fR \fIpath\fR]
\fBmcpx\fR \fIserver\fR [\fIFLAGS\fR]
\fBmcpx\fR \fIserver\fR \fItool\fR [\fIFLAGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Convert configured MCP servers into a CLI surface: list servers, list server tools, inspect schema-aware help, and invoke tools.
.SH OUTPUT
By default, mcpx writes content to stdout and diagnostics to stderr.
.TP
\fB--json\fR
Emits mcpx-owned outputs as JSON for:
mcpx, mcpx <server>, and mcpx <server> <tool> --help.
Normal tool-call output is not transformed.
.SH ADD
\fBmcpx add\fR accepts install-link URLs, manifest URLs/files, and direct MCP endpoint URLs.
.TP
\fB--name\fR \fIserver\fR
Select or rename the server entry to add.
.TP
\fB--header\fR \fIKEY=VALUE\fR
Set or override HTTP headers for URL-based servers (repeatable).
.TP
\fB--overwrite\fR
Replace an existing server entry in mcpx config.
.SH SKILL
\fBmcpx skill\fR installs agent skill files and links.
.TP
\fBinstall\fR
Install the built-in \fBmcpx\fR skill under \fB~/.agents/skills/mcpx\fR.
.TP
\fBinstall\fR [\fIserver\fR]
Install the built-in \fBmcpx\fR skill under \fB~/.agents/skills/mcpx\fR, or generate and install a server-specific skill from discovered tool metadata when \fIserver\fR is provided.
.TP
\fB--data-agent-dir\fR \fIpath\fR
Skill root directory (default: \fB~/.agents/skills\fR).
.TP
\fB--claude-dir\fR \fIpath\fR
Claude skill link root (default: \fB~/.claude/skills\fR).
.TP
\fB--no-claude-link\fR
Skip Claude symlink creation.
.TP
\fB--codex-link\fR / \fB--kiro-link\fR
Also create Codex/Kiro skill symlinks (use \fB--codex-dir\fR / \fB--kiro-dir\fR to override destinations).
\fB--openclaw-link\fR
Also create an OpenClaw skill symlink (defaults to \fB~/.openclaw/skills\fR when enabled).
\fB--openclaw-dir\fR \fIpath\fR
OpenClaw skill link root (default: \fB~/.openclaw/skills\fR).
.SH SHIM
\fBmcpx shim\fR manages optional passthrough command wrappers that forward to \fBmcpx <server> ...\fR.
.TP
\fBinstall\fR
Create a shim file for a server command name.
.TP
\fBremove\fR
Remove an installed mcpx-managed shim.
.TP
\fBlist\fR
List installed mcpx-managed shims.
.TP
\fB--dir\fR \fIpath\fR
Install/list/remove directory for shim files (default: \fB$XDG_BIN_HOME\fR or \fB~/.local/bin\fR).
.TP
\fB--skill\fR
After successful shim install, also install a generated server skill.
.TP
\fB--skill-strict\fR
Fail shim install command if generated skill installation fails (requires \fB--skill\fR).
\fB--openclaw-link\fR / \fB--openclaw-dir\fR
Also create OpenClaw skill links for generated server skills.
.SH COMPLETION
\fBmcpx completion\fR prints shell completion scripts for \fBbash\fR, \fBzsh\fR, and \fBfish\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 success
1 tool error (tool returned isError)
2 usage error
3 internal/transport error
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
mcpx
mcpx -v
mcpx --json
mcpx --json -v
mcpx add https://example.com/mcp-manifest.json
mcpx add https://mcp.deepwiki.com/mcp
mcpx add https://mcp.devin.ai/mcp --name deepwiki --header "Authorization=Bearer ${DEEPWIKI_API_KEY}"
mcpx skill install
mcpx skill install github
mcpx skill install --openclaw-link
mcpx skill install github --openclaw-link --openclaw-dir ~/.openclaw/skills
mcpx shim install github
mcpx shim install github --skill --skill-strict
mcpx shim list
mcpx shim remove github
mcpx <server>
mcpx <server> --json
mcpx <server> <tool> --help
mcpx <server> <tool> --help --json
.fi
